\section{Flowcharts}
\label{appendix:flowcharts}
% \begin{figure}
%     \caption{A flowchart of the TC receiving a sign request. Blue (dotted) nodes are only relevant in the first protocol.}
% \end{figure}

%\input{tables/variables.tex}

\begin{figure}
    \begin{subfigure}[T]{.4\columnwidth}
        \includegraphics[width=\columnwidth]{figures/drawio/flowchart-sign.drawio.pdf}
    \end{subfigure}
    \unskip\ \vrule\
    \begin{subfigure}[T]{.4\columnwidth}
        \includegraphics[width=\columnwidth]{figures/drawio/flowchart-process.drawio.pdf}
    \end{subfigure}
    \begin{minipage}{.45\columnwidth}
        \leavevmode\subcaption{Receiving a sign request.}
        \label{fig:appendix:flowchart-sign}
    \end{minipage}\hfil
    \begin{minipage}{.45\columnwidth}
        \leavevmode\subcaption{Receiving a message.}
        \label{fig:appendix:flowchart-process}
    \end{minipage}
    \caption{Flowcharts of the \acs{TC} logic. Blue (dotted) nodes are only
    relevant when a local trusted time source is available in \acsp{TC}.}
    \label{fig:appendix:flowchart}
\end{figure}

%Table~\ref{tbl:eval-variables} describes all variables used in the main paper
%for the reader's convenience. 
\cref{fig:appendix:flowchart} depicts flowcharts for the \ac{TC} behavior
described in our design. In particular, \cref{fig:appendix:flowchart-sign}
illustrates the steps taken to sign a \ac{V2V} message, while
\cref{fig:appendix:flowchart-process} shows the logic to verify a network
message, which can be either a \ac{HB} or a \ac{V2V} message.

According to \cref{req:v2v-receive,eq:valid-v2v-generic,eq:valid-heartbeat},
external messages should be verified with respect to authenticity (via digital
signature verification) and freshness (according to the validity window
\paramtt). Furthermore, the \ac{TC} should automatically perform self-revocation
if it detects de-synchronization (\cref{eq:auto-rev}). For every valid \ac{HB},
the \ac{TC} should synchronize its internal time \funcnow{}
((\cref{eq:time-update}), redundant if a local trusted time source is used), and
then inspect the \ac{PRL} to check whether self-revocation should be executed or
not (\cref{eq:self-rev}). For signing a message, the \ac{TC} should possess
valid pseudonyms in order to make a signature, which includes the input message
and context metadata such as timestamps (\cref{req:v2v-send}).

In \cref{fig:appendix:flowchart}, the \emph{timeout} condition in blue only
applies to the extension that takes into account a local trusted time source in
\ac{TC}, and checks if the current time is bigger than the biggest timestamp
received in a \ac{HB} plus \paramtt{} (\cref{eq:auto-rev-timeout}).